CthulhuMud Driver 1
-------------------

  Clans (act_clan.c, special.c)
    Help reordered 
    Clan who documented
    Clan donated fixed to write out clans.txt
    Clan report extended to include rank.
    Clan gold added to show how much gold all of the clans have
    Clan deposit added to give gold to an aribtary clan
    Clan withdraw added to take gold from an arbitary clan

    New commands can be used by:
       Gods (level 56+) 
         - unrestricted access to any clan
       Clan Rulers and Overseers:
         - Only for their clan
         - Gold gives ballpark figures for other clans

    Clanguard special added:
      Mob will attack people not in the clan and assist those who are.
      Takes a little while to notice, may warn before attacking.

  Shops (act_obj.c)
    Shop keepers will only buy items of their level and lower.  This lets
      you build newbie shops.

  Mob_Progs (mo_prog.c mob_commands.c, comm.c)
    Fixed numerous problems:
      speech_prog should run ok (but trigger syntax might get refined)
      random_prog seems ok (although it doesn't shutdown when noones around).
      act_prog needs more testing.
     
  Locks (act_move.c)
    The check sequence for lock, unlock and pick have been changed to match
      the sequence for open and close.  This means that doors and exits are
      checked before objects (and thus unlock w now works).

  Search (act_obj.c)
    Changed search to give better chances (especially for those of normal
      intelligence - 10 int used to be 0%, now 20%. 
    Made the messages more informative
      You find: xxx, one for each thing found.
    Added a message to others in the room when you find something.
    Removed the silly wait, as it impacted the next command after you had
      seen the messages saying what, if anything, you had found. 

  OLC (olc_act.c, bit.c)
    Fixed display of the size and default position fields.
      problems due to some AH using a static buffer in flag_string.  Left
      it in place, as there are LOTs of calls to flag-string.

