CthulhuMud Driver 5
-------------------

  Magic
    Mana costs now based on skill, not level.
    Mobs subject to normal spell csting limitations (mana, components)
    Spell casting now requires a 'spell casting' skill.
      Check made first. If ok, then spell skill roll made.
    Casting difficulty increases with unwilling targets and encumbrence.
    Components consumed if the spell casting roll works.
    Spec_cast_adept enhanced to conserve mana.
    Stat skill shows spell and affect details.
    Affect and spells seperated from skills.
    Some spells (chain lightning) still use old mechanisms.
    Spells using new mechanism can be parried, dodged and blocked.
  
  Skills & Spells
    No skill display when you're berzerk.
    Move skill_available into skill.c, lose act_skill.c.
    Mob skills can now be set
      Skills command under EDIT MOB
      No defaults, but guide on total number of points
      Skills ?? to get a list
    Learn skill added
    Teach skill added
    Split into Skill, Spell and Affect code
    Removed old 'save skills' routine. 
    Skill groups introduced - magic, combat, general, modern language,
      ancient language, mythos language (but no languages yet).    

  Repair
    'repair all'
    Rework the messages.
    Increase costs by 20%.
    Minimum condition raised to 5% (115% base cost of item). 

  Combat
    Combat switched over to a challange/resist model
    Attack Roll: level + weapon skill + open d%
    Defender must exceed it with a defence roll:
      level + shield_block + open d%
      level + parry + open d%
      level + parry * dual + open d%
      level + dodge + open d%
    Armour now serves to reduce damage 
      damage halved for every 100 points of armour  
    Kick, Trip, Bash, Dirt, Backstab and Circle use new mechanism
      Full set of bonuses and penalties
      Can be dodged, blocked and/or parried.
    Martial Arts skill replaces bonus from Monk Class 
      works like enhanced damage, giving a variable bonus. 
    Ultra damage only checked if enhanced damage check was successful.
    Enhanced Damage and Ultra damage also work with spells.

  Backup
    Add a backup script for the backup directory
      Backs up areas, players, classes, clans and time

  Professions
    Defined in profs.txt file (in /area)
    Offline editing only
    File defines
      - Skills and levels
      - Initial stats
      - Primary stat
      - Starting equipment
    Separate professions for Mobs (tieing to spec_cast_xxx code).
    Online query via prof command
    Also online changing
      - 3 practice sessions per change
      - Must have 3rd level in current profession
      - Gain all new base skills for the new profession 

  Experience
    More xps for killing level x
    Monsters effective level increased by special abilities.
    Slow growth exponential scale, meaning you need LOTS of xps to
      go up a level - 1500 at 5th level, 4750 at 30th, over 25,000
      at 100th level.

  Key Rings
    Finally
    Just like containers, but can only hold keys. 
    Important: Use 'keyring' in the name, not 'key ring'.

  Reconnect
    Should now work without:
      - Giving characters 'ghost' posessions
      - Crashing the MUD
      - Causing other weird effects

  OLC
    Skills command to review/set a mobs skills
    Setprof command to set a mobs skills according to a profession.
      Works, but results are sort of so-so due to random distribution.
    Out of OLC, skills works on mobs to see what their skills are.

  Miscellaneous
    Bank interested calculated with long, limited to 1001 days max.
    Search message when finding something inside an object.
    Material bug from Driver 4.
    Remove incorrect 'there is no keeper' messages.
    Fix display of open, but still hidden, doors.
    Add warning message for immortals walking into locked areas.
    Title restricted to heros and above.
    Fix 'stat obj' for guns.
    Fix for lockers losing stuff when left open.

