Driver 7
--------

  Driver 7.2.9 Installation
  -------------------------

    Copy races.txt, spells.txt, skills.txt and socrace.txt to /config
    Edit /config/society.txt and remove the racial societies

  RedHat Linux 6.0 compatability
  ------------------------------

    There seems to be a problem with db.c where the compiler says that
    variables pReset and letter are not initialized.  Looking at the code
    I don't see how that can be the case though.

  ACT/PLR Flag split
  ------------------

    The act word was used for two different sets of flags, one for NPCs
    and one for PCs.  This worked fine until someone used the switch
    command and we got a mob that was a PC but with the bits still set
    for its mob role.

    Fix is to introduce a new word for player bits and change all 
    references for PLR_ flags.

  Stats changed to max. 103
  -------------------------

    Stat ranges are now from 0 to 103, with bonuses and penalties
    correspondingly adjusted.  Players stats are suitably scaled when
    the player is loaded.
   
    The primary effect is to reduce the power of all stat boosting 
    items by 75%.  This is generally in keeping with a move away from
    a power play based system.

    It also opens the possabilities for a return of the train
    command.

  Positions and Activities
  ------------------------
  
    New internal function to set position and activity - integer values
    and descriptions.  Descriptions seen when a character is looked at.

    Position descriptions are 'default' and can be set through stand,
    rest, sit and sleep.  A few are also set by some commands.

    Activities are for long running processes, and last until there
    is another change in position or activity (or the process that
    is controlling the activity decides it is over).  Eventually this
    mechanism will be used for spell casting.

  Time Rebase
  -----------

    Changed base timescale for be 45 seconds to the hour rather than
    30 seconds.  This makes a few game features take a little longer.
    Time chart is now:

      4 pulses per second, 180 pulses make 1 game hour.

      So: 

	1 game minute	 	=  3/4 second
	1 game hour		=   45 seconds
	1 game day		=   18 minutes
	1 game week		=  126 minutes
				=    2 hours, 6 minutes
	1 game month		=  504 minutes
				=    8 hours, 40 minutes
	1 game year		= 6048 minutes
				=  100 hours, 48 minutes
				=    4 days, 4 hours, 48 minutes

    1 day realtime is 2 months, 3 weeks, and 3 days.  So logging in at
    the same time every day gets you in 4 days earlier in the month.
    Over 4 days you get 16 days earlier in the year.

   	1 real hour 	=	 3 days, 21 hours, 20 minutes
	2 real hours	=	 7 days, 18 hours, 40 minutes
	3 real hours	=	11 days, 14 hours

  Day and Night Rooms
  -------------------

    You can now specify alternate day and night locations for rooms.  Players
    and exits are automatically shifted according to the time of day.  Each
    day is divided into Dawn, Day, Dusk and Night.  During the day a rooms
    day alternative is used, during the night its night alternative will be
    used.  Dawn and dusk are one hour long and during them neither alternative
    is used.

    Note that you probably want a symmetrical setup, with the night room of
    one room being the day room of the other.

  Activities
  ----------

    A process for ongoing activities has been added.  Initial adaptions are
    lock picking, searching rooms, sneaking and hiding.  You can only do
    one thing at a time.  Transition between sneaking and hiding should be
    silent, as long as you are successful at both.

  Prompt
  ------

    Remove alignment.

    Add %p for position and %a for activity.

  Spells
  ------

    Spells are reworked to use the ongoing process model.  Spell casting is
    now a series of sequential steps, allowing casting to be interrupted.

    Spell definitions are externalized into config/spells.txt.  See that
    for the full details.

    A spell can be based upon 2 skills, in which case the average of these
    skills is used for the casting.

    Area affect spells that hit one or more rooms are also supported.

  Weather
  -------

    Weather system reworked, presentation with each room.

    Primative climates introduced on an area basis.

    'fullweather' command to toggle between summary and full text.

    Snow and Deep Snow increase movement costs.

  Boot Scripts
  ------------

    Script cthulhu can be placed in /etc/rc.d/init.d and linked into
    the rc3.d directory.  It is a redhat 6 complient start/stop script.

  New professions
  ---------------

    Profs.txt updated to include 20th century professions

      undergraduate
      convent undergraduate
      apprentice
      hoodlem
      cadet

      soldier
      policeman
      postgraduate
      good priest
      evil priest
      occultist
      gangster
      adventurer
      journeyman
      thief
      artist

   If you want the old professions, keep the old profs.txt or change the
   Player and Initial settings in this one.

 Quests
 ------

   Quests are like deeds, but have multiple stages:

       -1  Not yet started
        0  Started, but no details yet
        n  On step n
     9999  Completed

   Quests have a vnum like id, a state, a title that is set when the quest
   is assigned and an instruction that is set whenever the quest is updated.

   Mobs can access quest state through a quest condition, taking the quest id
   and a range of state values.

   Mobs can modify a players stae data through the MPQUEST command.

   A short quest might be:

     Wizard
      asked for quest
        quest not 37 0 9999
          MPQUEST @at START 37 Fetch Wizards book
          MPQUEST @at UPDATE 37 1 Ask apprentice 
          Say Ask Mob 2 where it is

      given book
        quest 37 2 2
          Say Thank you
          MPQUEST @at COMPLETE 37 Returned to Wizard
          MPREWARD @at 1000
        quest 37 not 2 2
          Say That's not the right book!

    Apprentice
      asked about book
        quest 37 1 1
          MPQUEST @at UPDATE 37 2 Look in the woods
          Say I lost it in the woods
        quest 37 2 2
          Say I told you, I lost it in the woods
        quest not 37 1 2
          Say Book! What book?
 
    Woods Room
      north
        quest 37 2 2 -> secret room 

    Secret Room
      book
      nasty monster

   This forces the player to go through the acts in the correct sequence.
   
   You can combine several quests to get multiple threads which the player
   may persue in parallel.

 MPQUEST
 -------

   MPQUEST player START id title

     This starts the player onthe quest and should normally be followed by
     an update to give them thier first instruction.

   MPQUEST player UPDATE id state instruction

     This updates the state of a quest that the player is already on.  There
     are no checks, so it might move them backwards overall.

   MPQUEST player COMPLETE id instruction

     This marks the quest as having been completed (state 9999).

   MPQUEST player FORGET id

     This removes all memory of the quest from the player.  It is as if they
     had never started it.
 
   If the player is in a group, the command will affect all group members.

 Training
 --------

   You get one training session per level.  You can spend them to
   improve your attributes:

     Strength, Intelligence, Wisdom, Dexterity, Constitution

       1-3 points per gain until 97, then 1 point per gain

       1st gain costs 1, 2nd 3, 3rd 6, 4th 10, 5th 15, 6th 21, etc...

     Hits, Mana, Move
 
       4-6 points per gain

       1st gain costs 1, 2nd 3, 3rd 6, 4th 10, 5th 15, 6th 21, etc...

     Practice, Sanity

       1-3 points per gain

       Each gain costs 1 train session.	
	

 Sanity
 ------

   Each player starts with a sanity rating that is a little higher than
   thier wisdom.  This will typically range from 60 (low) to 90 (high).
   If a players sanity drops below 32 they will start exhibiting signs
   of madness and these get progressively worse as their sanity drops
   towards zero.

   Sanity is normally lost through sanity checks.  These are triggered
   by mobs using the MPSANITY command.  This command specifies a threshold
   which is used to challange the players sanity using the formula:

     sanity + open d100 > threshold + open d100

   Threshold settings should be set carefully:

     40		Not very scary, only already insane players will have trouble
		with this.  Players will fail approx 20% of the time.
     50		Players will fail approx 30% of the time.
     60		Players will fail approx 40% of the time.
     70		Players will fail approx 50% of the time.
     80		Players will fail approx 60% of the time.
     90		Players will fail approx 70% of the time.
    100         Players will fail approx 80% of the time.

   So:

     Marginally mindbending:	 50
     Typcally mindbending:	 75
     Seriously mindbending:	100
     Mindblowing:		150

   Additionally sanity is also lost if you die.

   There are currently 3 ways to recover sanity:

     Train sanity
     Pass a sanity check by more than 100 points
     Persuade a mob to issue an MPSANITY RECOVER for you

   Econd for sanity added.


 MPSANITY
 --------

   MPSANITY player CHECK threshold action

     The player makes a sanity check againt the threshold.  If an action has
     been specified they will take it if they fail the check.  If no action
     has been specified, they will take a random action.  The threshold must
     be at least 30.

   MPSANITY player RESTORE points

     The players sanity will be increased by the specified number of points.
     There is a maximum of 20.

 Fright
 ------

   Mobiles may have a fright value set.  This is used as a sanity threshold
   whenever the player:

     enters a room and sees the mobile
     examines the mobile
     sees the mobile enter a room
     sees the mobile make a sacrifice
     sees the mobile interact with an idol

   The check is only made if the player is of a lower level than the mobile.

 Object Spell Casting
 --------------------

   Tidied up, fixed a couple of OLC bugs, removed the 'automatic hit' with
   attack spells.
 
 MPEFFECT
 --------
 
   This instantaneously applies a spell effect to a mobile without going
   through the whole spell casting sequence.  It is intended for usage
   by high level mobiles granting (or afflicting) others with spell like
   effects.  Generally mobs should use spell casting instead of this
   command.  This command will, however, work on an MPAT command.

   MPEFFECT mobile 'effect name' level

     This applies the named effect to the mobile.  This can be the mobile
     issueing the MPEFFECT call.  If level is omitted, the issuing mobiles
     will be used.

 Mob Memory
 ----------

   Mobs (and palyers) each have ten memory slots, each of which can hold 
   a string.  Strings are remembered through the MPMEMORY command and can
   be accessed through either @mx substitution tags or through the memory,
   memory_value, actor_remembered, and victim_remembered econds.

   Generally they are meant to be used to remember player and object names.

   A mob forgets everything when it is killed.

   Truenames are a good way to remember unique mobiles, but it is possible
   that they may be reused if, for instance, a mobile is killed or a player
   logs off.  True names are only valid for a few seconds after they are
   obtained.  It is better to remember player names rather than true name 
   Remembering the players name means that they cannot just quit and login
   again to make the monster lose track of them.

   A simple 'remember my enemy and be prepared' setup might be:

     combat/hit:
       not->actor_remembered 1
       am_victim
         MPMEMORY self REMEMBER 1 @a1
         Say I shall kill you, @a2!
 
     mob/death:
       actor_remembered 1 
         MPMEMORY self FORGET 1

     arrive/none:
       actor_remembered 1
         MPEFFECT self 'shield'
         MPEFFECT self 'haste'
         MPEFFECT self 'giant strength'
         MPEFFECT @at  'weaken'
         MPKILL @at
         Say I said I would kill you!
 
  A more complicated usage would involve the track command, where the mob
  would hunt the PC down if they left.  Note that this remains in effect
  until either the mob is slain or the mob sees the pc die.

 MPMEMORY
 --------

   This updates a mobs memory

     MPMEMORY mobile REMEMBER slot text
 
       This causes the mob to remember something in a slot.

     MPMEMORY mobile FORGET slot

       This causes the mobile to forget what is in a slot.      

 Web Status
 ----------

   From Driver 7.1.5 CthulhuMud will maintain an html document called

      mud/html/online.html

   which contains the muds current status.  When the mud is running it will
   contain a list of current players (updated every 45 seconds).  When the
   mud is down or booting, it will contain some appropriate text (copied
   from the booting.html, shutdown.html and crashing.html files in the
   same directory).

 Iff
 ---

   Added the ability to determine if another mob is friend or foe.  The
   code uses fighting, hunting, groups and societies to make this
   determination.  In addition to display and econds it is also used to
   target area spells, in conjunction with a scope.

 MPHUNT
 ------

   This makes the mob hunt the specified pc.  Currently it only works with 
   the special routines that handle hunting mobs.

   MPHUNT mobile

     Mob starts hunting (and trying to kill) the mobile

   MPHUNT
 
     Mob stops hunting.

 Text Formatting
 ---------------
 
   Introduced a new, single pass, text formatting routine.  It knows about
   {? control codes and imbedded periods.  It can support an imbedded {/
   for when you want a new paragraph in a description.

   The {? control codes are:

     {x  Reset to (grey on black, not extended highlighting)
     {b  Blue
     {c  Cyan
     {d  Invisible (black)
     {g  Green
     {m  Magenta
     {r  Red
     {w  Dirty white
     {y  Browny yellow
     {B  Bright Blue
     {C  Bright Cyan
     {G  Bright Green
     {M  Bright Magenta
     {R  Bright Red
     {W  Bright White
     {Y  Bright Yellow
     {D  Dark Grey (Bright Black, would you believe)
     {*  Bell (very annoying)
     {/  New line
     {{  A {
     {3  Underlined   \
     {4  Reverse       > Not all clients support these, so use with caution.  
     {&  Blinking     /
     {F  Toggle formatting off and back on

   If you enter an invalid code, you get the code shown as is.  This probably
   isn't a good idea as I may add more codes later.

 Tracks
 ------

   Two types of tracks - footprints and guides.

   Footprints can be permanent (part fo the room) or transient (left by
   something walking through the room).  Transient foot prints wear out
   with time.

   Guides are a part of the room definition and instruct mobs to move
   in a certain direction and run certain scripts.

   Tracking is through the tracks command.  On its own it shows all tracks
   in the room, with a parm it tries to follow those tracks from room to
   room.  Mobs should use the track command for follow guide tracks.

   Permanent tracks are created with the ptracks redit command.  It will
   create either footprint tracks or guide tracks.

   When specifying size for tracks you have a range from 0 to 5:

	0	Tiny
	1	Small
	2	Medium
	3	Large
	4	Huge
	5	Gigantic

   Directions must also be specified as numbers:

	 0	North
	 1	East
	 2	South
	 3	West
	 4	Up
	 5	Down
	 6	Northeast
	 7	Southeast
	 8	Southwest
	 9 	Northwest
	10	Here
	11	Elsewhere

   Values 10 and 11 cannot be followed through automatic tracking.

 spec_clanguard
 --------------

   Special procedure for society oriented guards.  Thier names should
   contain the string _soc_nn, where nn is the societies id.
 
   A clan guard will ignore friends of its society, and attack foes 
   on sight. It may also attack anyone else who happens to stray near
   it on general principles. 

 ACT_AUTOHOME
 ------------
 
   If a mob with this attribute find itself alone for more than 5 minutes
   in a room other than the one it was spawned in, it will teleport back
   there.  Useful for things that go tracking.

 Player Combat
 -------------

   The rules are simple:

     o Newbies may participate in fights
     o No one may attack an immortal
     o If you kill a player, you get your permadeath flag set

   The mud also has an unrestricted PK mode, set via the setpk command.
   When active, you do not get your permadeath flag set for killing another
   player.

 Permadeath Flag
 ---------------

   If the character dies, for any reason, then it will be deleted.

   All players start with it set off, but there are ways of getting it
   turned on.

   Getting it turned off is considerable more difficult. 

 spec_clanhealer
 ---------------

   A mob with this attribute should also have ACT_CLERIC or ACT_MAGE set.
   They will cast bless, armor, cure blindness, cure light, cure poison
   and restore spells on those characters that are identified as friendly
   to them.

   Thier names should contain _soc_nn, where nn is the id of the society
   they are a member of.

   They can also recognise the societies foes and will react appropriately.

 Can_See/Can_Not_See
 -------------------
 
   These allow you to specify econds for when a mobile can or cannot
   unconditionally see a player.  The can see function is checked first.

   Mobs should only react to players that they can see.

   Econds actor_visible and victim_visible added to support this.

 MPSTEAL
 -------

   Allows a mob to unconditionally take an object from another player or 
   mobile.  No messages are generated, so use appropriate echos.

   MPSTEAL 'mobile' 'item'

   If item can be found on mobile it will be removed (and unequipped if
   worn) and put into the inventory of the mobile.

   For example:

     MPSTEAL @at 'ghul stone'
     MPJUNK 'ghul stone'
     MPECHOAT @at {YYour ghul stone shatters!{x

   Which will give the effect of the players 'ghul stone' being destroyed
   whenever the script is run.  Econds should be used to check the player
   actually has one first.

 Debating
 --------

   A battle of skills between two mobs, but without the bloodshed of
   combat.

     Each player matches debating skill + roll + debated skill

     Highest wins one or more points.

     First to 15 points wins the debate

   Debating uses movement and you only get a reward for winning (or a penalty
   for losing) a debate where the skills are closely matched.

 New Skills
 ----------

   fourth attack

     Gives an extra attack if 3rd is successful

   lethal damage

     Another level of damage multiplier after ultra damage

   black belt

     Another level of martial arts damage

   axe master, flial master, mace master, dagger master, polearm master,
   spear master, sword master, whip master

     Master skills for various weapons, giving damage boosts.

   marksman

     Master skill for gun and handgun.  Does not apply to smgs.

 Scrying
 -------

   Adds a skill and on object type.  You need to have a scrying object to
   use the skill.  Can be carried or in the room.

   Usage is 'scry mob'.  Mortals get to pass a skill check (with penalties
   for out of area and out of zone scrying) and pay a mana cost (cost for
   power word plus the victims level).

   Shows the players view of the room that contains a mob matching the
   victim.  It msy not be the person you wanted to look at.

 HTML Support
 ------------

   Designed to work with Fire Client.  Might also work with Pueblo.

   Internal HTML formatter for those using other clients.
     Handles a few tags, but does some font/color management.
     Unrecognized tags are passed through, as they are sometimes
       valid data.
     Intercepts send_to_char and page_to_char.

   Added an 'html' command to turn html output on and off.
 
   Added Image and Homepage commands to complement the email command.

   Upgraded whois to display them.

 Driver 7.1.1
 ------------
   Various small fixes and the yog compile flag

 Driver 7.1.2
 ------------
   Fixes to config files - profile (room 32000) and profs.txt (journeyman
     qualification condition)
   Two skill spells
   Quests and MPQUEST
   actor/victim_grouped econds

 Driver 7.1.3
 ------------
   Profession desciptions
   Training
   Sanity part 1
   Object spells and MPEFFECT
   Mob memory
   Add player name to player true name

 Driver 7.1.4
 ------------
   Fix problem with underground areas always being dark
   Change AFK to display (AFK) rather than remove your prompt
   Fix crash in brew and scribe
   Add (concealed) and (vis-death) tags for objects
   Fix problem with environment cold damage being treeted as drowning
   Fix parry messages for freak dual parry situation
   Add editor type to OLC prompt
   Fix bug in potions with undefined effects

 Driver 7.1.5
 ------------
   Fix crash at year end
   Add starting location for professions
   Add sanity step for spells
   Fix spell casting sequence/timing
   Fix typos in spell finished message
   Fix crash in chat when replacing only chat line 
   Improved restart scripts
   Fix bug in spec_cast_adept for cure blindness
   Fix bug swith spells showing things you cannot cast
   Fix bug in check_skill causes skills to be to easy to learn through
     failed usage.

 Driver 7.1.6
 ------------
   Fix problem with online.html file permissions (now set to 664)
   Fix problems with PCs not sobering up
   Fix problem with knurd NPC (and PCs now)
   Fix 'ghastly sobriety' spell
   Fix set food, drink, drunk, fat getting applied to wrong char
   Fix buffer clearing problem in score
   Change exit process for when target departs
   Only gain sanity from a good check if threat > sanity
   Move society details from 'examine ch' to 'society research ch'
   Added glance command which does not show equipment
   Added insanity indicator to examine display
   Fix spelling of Occultist
   Reactivate haggle and rework some of the buy code
   Complete @ to end a note
   Change a lot of pointers to 'static xxx yyy = NULL;' declarations
   Added fright
   Enhanced text formatting

 Driver 7.1.7 (October 16th, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Fix FAST_HEAL crash when player not in a room
   Fix weight loss problems
   Fix glance position/activity message
   Fix Show format for Mobs
   Fix startup to copy booting script after reboot
   Add quests ALL parameter
   Complete help indexer
   Added hits, mana, move, hits_percent, mana_percent and move_percent econds
   Added ACT_ALIENIST and the threapy command
   Added Tracks and Tracking
   Added player bios, changed desc to use the editor
   Reworked the memory allocation a little
   Fix bug in buy when short_descr and name don't match
   Reworked spec_clanguard for societies
   Allowed heroes to see immtalk
   Add 'fix on load' for food and drink strangeness
   Added Permadeath
   Fix bug in dream skills
   Simplified PK system
   Added ACT_AUTOHOME
   Added spec_clanhealer
   Added can_see/can_not_see vision econds
   Ulthar based professions added
   
 Driver 7.1.8 (October 17th, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Fix affect stripping in save.c
   Force a pets room to NULL on load
   Reimplemented update.gain_condition to condition problems
   Fix spec_breath and add a natural magic skill
   Reset AUTOHOME timer after move home
   Fix clanguard and clanhealer
   Fix scheduling of new command before first command

 Driver 7.1.9 (October 18th, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Fix for hard loop after boot
   Fix for turbo-cops problem
   Fix command scheduling
   Suppreess a few state change messages (tracking and incap)
   Fix duplicate pet insert bug leading to loop 

 Driver 7.2.1 (October 21st, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Fix queueing/execution problems with mob commands
   Add queue command to see a mobs command queue
   Add Area_Damage and Area_Healing spell steps

 Driver 7.2.2 (October 24th, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Fix dream respawn strangeness
   Fix format with new paragraph problem
   Change day check to be 1 based rather than 0 based
   Make affect have a global search scope
   Reduce chances for lock picking
   Fix problem with chance divider in some check_improve calls
   Speed up incapacitated and mortally wounded deaths a bit
   Added MPSTEAL

 Driver 7.2.3 (October 26th 1999)
 --------------------------------
   Fix MPSTEAL and unseen characters
   Make spell casting in combat a little easier
   Debating
   Reactive home
   Add a knock command for knocking on doors

 Driver 7.2.4 (November 1st, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Add extra protection to combat commands to avoid crashes
   Add wait check to auto stand code
   Protect against trying to save with lprof->profession NULL
   Better validation of initial profession
   Fixed @mn substitution problem
   Add all_room selector for MPTRANSFER
   Reworked innards of MPTRANSFER 
   Prevent somebody substitution for @xr, @xt and @xl
   Added a wear back location, mainly for backpacks
   Fix short weather being displayed inside and not outside
   Fix documentation for MPSCRIPT
   Fix MPxxx command authorization to permit usage by gods and prevent usage
    by switched mortals
   Fix command authroization checking to use original char for switched NPCs
   Unskilled mobs to have a minimum english skill of 51%
   Add 'switched from' character to stat mob display
   Add skills brew and scribe, rework the code for them a bit
   Add new skill group - production
   Fix problems with a mob that does both learn and practice
   Remove 'concealed' flag from items when they are picked up
   Fix conv insert sequence for first entry
   Add '-' as an escape char for OLC
   Added Affect4 and code for APPLY_SKILL
   Key letter 'S' used to store object details
   Added OEdit addskill command to set them

 Driver 7.2.5 (November 2nd, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Fix problem with sizes and tracks missing from end of race table
   Add wards to is_name and is_name_abbv
   Change affect.bitvector from int to long 
   Fix bug in switched chars using original divinity
   Only save characters in CON_PLAYING
   Add Affect4 to locker.c 

 Driver 7.2.6 (November 3rd, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Add some new combat skills
   Fix return from is_name and is_name_abbv in handler.c
   Make gun damage non-scaling
   Reduce and normalize h2h damage
   Fix set skill to have range 0..150
   Reduce mob damage ranges a bit

 Driver 7.2.7 (November 7th, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Add interrogate command and skill
   Third strike to be with dual weapon if dual wielding
   Give mobs some tracking skill
   Add otypes OLC command to show object types
   Adjust exp tables to make levelling harder
   Reduce exp gain from killing things
   Reduce chance of out classed mobs fleeing to 50%
   Give mobs a 50% chance of looking around if the caster is hidden/invis
   Increase death penalty from 500xps to a third of a levels worth
   Fix problems with big xp loss when fleeing and losing a level
   Change flee xp loss to 1/100th of a level

 Driver 7.2.8 (November 20th, 1999)
 ----------------------------------
   Restrict learning of 'teach' to the practice command only
     Also forbid debating it
   Increase ProtGood/Evil protection from env dam from 25% tp 50%
   Add directions in and out
   Add OLC warning for wear pride/light and not type pride/light
   Raise Mobs gold limit to 10,000
   Implement gold conservation strategy for mob shop keepers
     Price reduced 10% per 1000 gold < 10000
     Price halved if greater than 50% of thier available gold
     Sales prices increased 5% per 1000 gold < 10000
   Increase wear and tear on objects (mainly from combat)
   Fix enchant weapon/armor copying of affect data
   Fix problem saving afn type affects on objects
   Allow shopkeepers to buy items up to level + 10
   Indicate on 'value' if the shopkeeper can afford the item
   Raised Max damage and reduced damage reduction
     Increases damage done by high level players and mobs
   Fix 'power word' losing user supplied words
   Fix crash in otypes
   Fix message from Mass Healing
   Suppress env damage message with 0 points of damage
   Hide 'skill' from ? apply
   Reenable recruit
   Add 'hours' to find out when a shop is open
   Add 'spell spell_name' to get info about the spell
   Consider containers to a be single objects for carry purposes
   Add weight reduction field for containers to give Bag of Holding effect
   Add a 'weight' command to find out how heavy something is.
   Added room information to remote glance display
   Added scrying
   Fix bug in flee that gives you xps instead of taking them away 
     Flee loss is 0.5% of xp for level
   Fix reversed messages with environmental damage
   Fix pet xp adjustment

 Driver 7.2.9 (November 28th, 1999)
 ----------------------------------
   Fix bug with defender shield damage
   Fix excess mana consumption from late chanting
   Split socrace.txt out of society.txt 
   Add external race file
   Fix crash with Poison and Harm in potions
   Fix crash trying to pick a non-existant door
   Notify to use short-descr, not name
   Set AutoExit, Split, Assist and Save for newbies
   Support for a limited HTML subset in text
   Support for IMP_HTML 
   Added 'html' command to turn html stripping on and off
   Added 'image' and 'homepage' commands to store URLs
   Reduce dreaming and spell casting by 1 point for every 2 points of
     sanity over 120
   Stop practice mobs letting people learn from them
   Finally removed the skill table
   Added spell 'iron skin'

 Driver 7.3.0 (December 5th, 1999)
 ---------------------------------
   Another go at fixing the shield bug
   Fix handling of incomplete html tags
   Complete external race code
   Fixed comm.c to prompt for race
   Add ICond (initial Conditions) to professions to allow race checks
   Fixed experience to use effective level
     (to balance for races with permanent effects)
   Fixed bug that gave 50% more xps than it should have
   A little more tampering with the xp curves
   Score now shows effective level as well as current
   Steepened mob skill progressions, to try and make the high level ones
     more challanging.
   Remove old clan code
     Fix Clan tell and Clan lockers
   Fix spell poison/portal/gate look up for immortals
   Fix intox remaining with hangover
   Fix drunken stupor lasting much to long
   Fix vocalize/ventriqulocate mix up
   Drunken speach and skill penalties

  
 Suspected Bugs
 --------------

   Crash when deleting an empty note. (7.1.6?)
   m/o/pwhere can cause overlays with a target that gets a lot of hits (7.1.7)
   Char getting failed reconnect and not showing on who (7.1.9)
   
