To Generate a Help Index
------------------------

	cd cthulhu/html/help
	./index

	Files MUST be in unix format (LF between lines, not CRLF pairs)

This results in 2 files:

	index.dat

		CthulhuMud should be able to read this directly and use it as its internal 'map'
		of the help files.  In includes help keywords, filenames and conditions.

	index.html

		This can be viewed with a web browser to provide an index of the help files.

	A number of intermediate files are also produced.

Within Help Files
-----------------

Each file is required to have four Cthulhumud entries in its html.

<CthulhuMud-Title    Quests>

	This gives the title that appears on the general help index.

<CthulhuMud-Index    Adventuring>

	This identifies the section of the general index that the file is listed in.

<CthulhuMud-Keywords quests quest>

	This specifies the help keywords that are associated with the help file.  When a player
	issues a help xyz command, these are the keywords that will be searched.

<CthulhuMud-Cond     1 2 'level' 10 -1>

	This is optional and specifies a condition that the player must satisfy to be allowed
	to see the help file.  Multiple conditions may be specified. (The condition shown here
	means those below 10th level cannot see the file).

Observer and Research
---------------------

These are two additional html diretories, which are also indexed (and for which the mud should be
able to load thier indexes).  The Observer directory is for the Arkham Observer, where individual
articles can be stored as html files and then access through the mud.  Conditions can be used to
restrict articles to certain players.  The reasearch directory is similer but is specifically
desgned to support an in game 'research' command which could be issued in libraries and other
places of knowledge.  There would be a chance, based on the researchers 'research' skill and the
rooms 'research effect' of them finding one or more articles from the research database.  The
conditions needed for the article would also have to be satisfied.

